That leaves us with one final strategy which is known as,
one final distribution style,
which is known as the key distribution strategy.
Here, what happens is that rows having similar values are placed in the same slice.
So take a look here,
we can decide that we are going to distribute that table,
that fact table, this fact table on the dimStore key, this key.
If we do that, what happens?
When we copy the file here,
we get the two,
two, two, two together here, all the keys here.
Actually the three, three here and the four here,
and the five here, and it continue.
I mean, if we have more keys,
you will find that all the keys are grouped like that and placed here.
You might wonder why would we do such a thing,
and whether this is actually even sane to do.
The idea is that this can lead to a skewed distribution,
if some values of the key are more frequent than others,
we know that, that's a possibility actually.
So, the useful trick here,
despite the possibility of a skewed distribution,
is that we can have a fact and a dimension table,
where the dimension table is the rare case where it is actually rather big,
so we cannot do the ALL trick.
So, we will in that case,
take each one of those tables and distribute it using the key we used to
join them together and if these two tables are distributed on the joining keys,
the redshift co-locates the rows from both tables on the same slices.
Let's see a visualization of that.
In that case, that fact table here,
we assume that this one,
we got one which is really really big that we
cannot do an ALL and that's here we're doing this key.
So instead, we go on the idea of
that dimension table and we actually do a distribution by this ID.
We go on the factSales table and we do a distribution on that key.
So, all the rows that have two inter-dimensional store come here,
all the threes come here and all the fours come here, all the fives come here.
Actually, you will see also,
Redshift understands that these, the ID,
this is like the primer in the foreign key or that's where we join
them and actually starts to put the two's also of that table here.
Actually, you will have one two,
but it will be put here.
Also similarly, you will see that you will be able to do the join without any shuffling.
You eliminate totally the shuffling.
So, you have two ways of eliminating the shuffling.
You either do an even for the fact,
with ALL for the dimensions,
or you would do a key and key on the joining keys for the fact and the dimensions.
When do we do that?
If the dimension table was too big.
So let's see a little bit. The syntax here is the fact table.
Here's a dimension table.
These are orders and these are the dimensions,
which are the, or one dimension,
which is the part dimension.
We can see we do the normal trade table and after the not null we just say this key here,
and we say this key here and these ones are actually used to
join the tables and we do the magic trick that we just described.